<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>Newbie - American?</title>
<link href="../Styles/MainStyle.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>Newbie - American?</h1>

<p>Ben is being introduced to Teacher Li. But what’s this about fruit?</p>

<h3>měi guó rén?</h3>
<h2>美国人？</h2>

<audio controls="controls" src="../Audio/American--Du-Chinese.mp3">American--Du-Chinese</audio>
<br/><br/>

<span>Teacher Zhang: Teacher Li, this is Ben, my student.</span><br/>
<span>zhāng lǎoshī: lǐ lǎoshī, zhè shì běn, wǒ de xuésheng.</span>
<h4>张老师: 李老师, 这是本, 我的学生。</h4>

<span>Ben: Hello! My name is Ben, I’m American (someone without fruit).</span><br/>
<span>běn: nǐhǎo, wǒ jiào běn, wǒ shì měi guó rén (méi guǒ rén).</span>
<h4>本: 你好! 我叫本, 我是美国人 （没果人）。</h4>

<span>Teacher Li: Hello, I have fruit, I’m “someone with fruit”.</span><br/>
<span>lǐ lǎoshī: nǐhǎo, wǒ yǒu guǒ, wǒ shì "yǒu guǒ rén".</span>
<h4>李老师: 你好, 我有果, 我是 "有果人"。</h4>

<span>Ben: You have fruit?</span><br/>
<span>běn: yǒu guǒ?</span>
<h4>本: 果人?</h4>

<span>Teacher Li: Didn’t you say “You are someone without fruit”, that you don’t have fruit? I have fruit, I am “someone with fruit”.</span><br/>
<span>lǐ lǎoshī: nǐ búshi shuō"nǐ shi méi guǒ rén", nǐ méi yǒu guǒ ma? wǒ yǒu guǒ, wǒ shi "yǒu guǒ rén".</span>
<h4>李老师: 你不是说 "你是没果人", 你没有果吗？ 我有果, 我是 "有果人"。</h4>

<span>Ben: No, what I said was "American".</span><br/>
<span>běn: bú shi, wǒ shuō de shì "měi guó rén".</span>
<h4>本: 不是, 我说的是 "美国人"。</h4>

<span>Teacher Li: That’s right. "American", "someone without fruit". In Chinese, if the tone is not the same, then the meaning is also not the same.</span><br/>
<span>lǐ lǎoshī: zhè jiù duì le. "měi guó rén", "méi guǒ rén", zhōngwén lǐ, shēngdiào bùyīyàng, yìsi yě bùyīyàng.</span>
<h4>张老师: 这就对了。 "美国人", "没果人", 中文里, 声调不一样, 意思也不一样。
</h4>

<span>Ben: Ok, I get it. Thank you, Teacher Li!</span><br/>
<span>běn: hǎo de, wǒ zhīdàole. lǐ lǎoshī, xièxie nǐ!</span>
<h4>本: 好的, 我知道了。 李老师, 谢谢你!</h4>

<p class="wordstit">Words</p>

<p><span class="words">学生</span> [xuésheng] - student</p>

<p><span class="words">就</span> [jiù] - at once / right away / only / just (emphasis)</p>

<p><span class="words">里</span> [lǐ] - inside / internal / interior</p>

<p><span class="words">声调</span> [shēngdiào] - tone / note / a tone (on a Chinese syllable)</p>

<p><span class="words">不一样</span> [bùyīyàng] - different / distinctive / unlike</p>

<p><span class="words">意思</span> [yìsi] - idea / opinion / meaning</p>

<p><span class="words">知道了</span> [zhīdàole] - OK! / Got it!</p>

<p><span class="words">谢谢</span> [xièxie] - thank you</p>
</body>
</html>